---
layout: blog
title: Getting Closer To The Goal
meta: On Wednesday October 18th at 6:30 PM, a call came through on my cell phone from a New York number I did not recognize. 
author: Helen Fosam
date: November 3 2016
category: nigeria-project
---

  **On Wednesday October 18th at 6:30 PM, a call came through on my cell phone from a New York number I did not recognize. The caller asked for me by name, and requested confirmation that the number reached is the correct phone number for The Edge Medical Writing, my business.** I responded to the affirmative. As a freelance medical writer, a call outside the usual hours of business is not uncommon, and naturally, I assumed that the caller was in need of my service. I was, however, surprised when the caller mentioned some details about a proposal for an international Telemedicine initiative that I was involved in developing. At this point I sat up straight, my eyes widened, and my hearing became very acute. The concept had been developed and submitted a couple of months prior to the Nigerian Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, to gauge their level of interest, and potentially lending their endorsement to any funding applications to support the program. The caller then introduced them self as the Consulate General of Nigeria, and went to request a face-to-face meeting in New York to discuss the proposed initiate further. Surprised and deeply honored, I immediately accepted the meeting invitation. Two hours of a very cordial meeting provided opportunity for lots of questions and discussions. I was grateful for the generous time I was given to present the rationale for the Telemedicine initiative. I provide some background to the multinational team of experts from Nigeria, India and the United States that would be involved, and the efforts made, and continue to be made, towards grant applications to secure funding get the project off the ground. I was humbled when my initial blog [“We’re In This Together”] (http://www.theedgemedicalwriting.com/nigeria-project/2016/07/28/We're-In-This-Together.md07-28-We're-In-This-Together.html) caught the Consulate General’s attention. The team of collaborators are excited for the interest shown by the Nigerian Government, and wait in anticipation for the opportunity to present the initiative and capabilities to the Minister in Nigeria.  
To learn more about the Telemedicine initiative, contact Helen Fosam (609 273 6019; hfosam@theedgemedicalwriting.com) or Renee Ebert (communityfundraising16@gmail.com).
Helen Fosam, PhD, is a medical writer at The Edge Medical Writing. Dr. Fosam completed her PhD and post doctorate research at Sheffield University, UK, and has published widely in peer-reviewed journals. For more information, contact The Edge Medical Writing. (Tel. 609 273 6019; hfosam@theedgemedicalwriting.com).
Renee Ebert, MPH provides professional support to public health project funding and program coordination, including USAID projects. Ms. Ebert completed her Master’s Degree in Public Health-Community Health Science/Health Services degree at UCLA with emphasis on innovative telehealth/telemedicine satellite technology for distance learning. For more information contact Ms. Ebert (communityfundraising16@gmail.com).

