---
layout: blog
title: First Three Things I Do Before I Write
---
**To be good at writing technical reports, including needs assessments, grant proposals, and content for continuing medical education, you really have to put yourself in the mindset of a fine chef.** A chef doesn’t throw ingredients into a dish without a plan ‑ at least not the kind of chef you would want preparing your meal. What separates the talented from the amateur is an ability to curate the finest ingredients and know how to use those ingredients to produce tastes and flavors that dance across the palette. As an experienced writer, I produce high quality content for medical education based on well-crafted needs assessments through my service at The Edge Medical Writing. 

Before I start any writing project, I take the time to assemble the finest ingredients in the form of well-sourced facts and figures so I can draft the best possible needs assessment for your organization.  If you’re involved in continuing medical education, then you already know how important a good needs assessment can be to the success of your organization. A needs assessment is instrumental in helping medically focused educational programs win funding, and guide education as a whole. Even when the economy is in a slump, private businesses are always interested in making financial contributions to medical education institutions ‑ so long as educational programs can demonstrate value for the money.

When I sit down to write a needs assessment for a client, whether for a new therapeutic area or an area I’ve covered several times before, I make every effort to understand the focus of the needs assessment from every possible angle. I consider what the client is trying to accomplish and try to balance that against what the ultimate deciding authority expects to see when judging the merits of the needs assessment that support the funding proposal.  In my report writing research ‑ especially if writing a needs assessment in response to a request for proposal (RFP) ‑ I make sure to read all the details and underline all the keywords to ensure the focus of the needs assessment is exactly what the eventual reader is looking for. I further go on to research the RFP issuing company, their products and services, and how they differ from the competition. I create folders and subfolders to organize the information, just as a master chef would organize their workstation prior to making a meal, so that all of the information I’ll need will be within arm’s reach and easily accessible.

I use several sources for all my writing projects, especially needs assessments, including online databases such as PubMed, reports from agencies such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and more. Disease specific societies are also a great resource for accurate and useful information.

All in all, the worst thing you can do when writing a technical report or a needs assessment is to lose focus of the audience and the ultimate goal. I’ve been writing for medical education for several years, and after reviewing all the facts that I have to work with, can offer expert guidance and writing that is comprehensive, balanced and focused.

For more information on The Edge Medical Writing and the type of technical writing services we provide, contact The Edge Medical Writing today. (Tel. 609 273 6019; hfosam@theedgemedicalwriting.com).
